.TH MX-LIVE-USB-MAKER 1 "2026-02-15" "mx-live-usb-maker" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mx-live-usb-maker \- create bootable live USB drives from ISO files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mx-live-usb-maker
.RI [ filename ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mx-live-usb-maker
is a graphical utility for creating bootable live USB drives from ISO files,
another live USB, a live CD/DVD, or a running live system.
It supports MX Linux, Arch Linux, and other Linux distributions.
.PP
For Arch-based ISOs, the tool automatically sets up
.B Live\-usb\-storage
\(em a persistent storage area on the USB drive that survives reboots.
A
.I ~/Live\-usb\-storage
symlink is created for each user, pointing to a per-user directory on the
boot partition.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I filename
Path to an .iso file to open on startup.
.TP
.B \-h\fR, \fB\-\-help
Display help text and exit.
.TP
.B \-v\fR, \fB\-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.SH LIVE-USB-STORAGE
When an Arch-based ISO is written to a USB drive, persistent storage is
configured automatically.
At boot time a systemd service remounts the boot partition read\-write
and creates a
.I Live\-usb\-storage
directory on it.
Each user with UID >= 1000 gets a symlink at
.IR ~/Live\-usb\-storage .
.PP
On FAT32 partitions the boot device is remounted with
.BR uid=1000,gid=1000
so the live user can write to it directly.
On POSIX filesystems (ext4, etc.) per-user directories are created with
proper ownership.
.SS Kernel Boot Options
The following options can be added to the kernel command line (e.g.\& via
the bootloader menu) to control Live\-usb\-storage behaviour:
.TP
.B nostore
Persistently disable storage.
Creates an
.I arch/state/nostore
flag file on the boot device.
Storage will remain disabled on subsequent boots until
.B dostore
is used.
.TP
.B dostore
Re-enable storage by removing the persistent
.I nostore
flag file.
.TP
.B disablestore
Disable storage for the current boot session only.
No persistent state is changed; storage will be active again on the next
boot.
.SS copytoram Support
When
.B copytoram
is used, Arch\(cqs initramfs loads the squashfs image into RAM and unmounts
the boot device.
The Live\-usb\-storage service detects this and re-mounts the boot device
by its label or UUID (parsed from
.BR archisolabel= / archisouuid= / archisodevice=
kernel parameters), so persistent storage continues to work even when
running from RAM.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /run/archiso/bootmnt
Mount point for the Arch live USB boot partition.
.TP
.I /run/archiso/bootmnt/Live\-usb\-storage/
Persistent storage directory on the boot partition.
.TP
.I /run/archiso/bootmnt/arch/state/nostore
Flag file that persistently disables storage.
Created by the
.B nostore
boot option, removed by
.B dostore.
.TP
.I /usr/local/bin/live\-usb\-storage
The storage setup script, injected into the live system at boot.
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/live\-usb\-storage.service
Systemd service unit that runs the storage setup script.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error (missing dependencies, permission denied, etc.).
.SH AUTHORS
Adrian and the MX Linux team <http://mxlinux.org>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR archiso (1),
.BR syslinux (1),
.BR grub-install (1)
